# Aim: How did the Incas adapt to their environment? 
Do now: What inferences can you make abuot the civilization that produced this object? 
- The civilization probably had some spiritual relationship with the llama. 
- The people probably used llamas for transport of goods. 

### Incan Beginnings 
- Inca live first in high plateau of Andes Mountains 
- By 1200s, they have a kingdom in valley of Cuzco 
- Inca believe that their ruler is descended from sun god, Inti 

### Organized Rule 
- Inca divide conquered lands into smaller units to gvoern easily
- Make Quechua official language of entire empire 

### Incan Cities Show Goverment Presence 
- Inca build cities with same architecture for government buildings 
- Capital is Cuzco, which has temples, plazas, palaces
- Inca are very skilled builders 

### Inca Government 
- Inca government controls economy and society 
- Use **ayllu** - extended family group - to control how people live & work 
- Divides society into groups of 10; 100; 1,000; 10,000 
- Chain of command stretches very far 

### Public Works Projects 
- Government creates public works, including: 
  - 14,000 mile road network, where runners carry messages along the roads to different places 

### Inca Gods 
- Inca have fewer gods than Aztecs 
- Creator god and sun god are most important 

### Religious Practices 
Priests would draft young women to assist in ceremonies, but some young men would also become speicalized religious workers. 

There were also various great cities that served a religious purpose in the Incan empire. The city of Cuzco had a magnificent *Temple of the Sun*, which was decorated in gold. Other cities may have been of religious important as well, or of ceremonial importance. 
