<style>
    .green {
        color: green;
    }
</style>
Aim: Why did Reformation ideas spread throughout Europe?
<br> Date: 27 Apr 2021

# Reformation in Europe 
**Do now:** What might motivate the kings and princes of Europe to either defend Catholicism or to accept the new Protestant faith? 
- A downside of accepting the Protestant faith would be that one will never be sure that everyone will just go along with this newly introduced faith. 
- The king would not want to go against the pope, as going amongst the pope would mean all the countries still loyal to him would then turn against the king. 
- Thus, there would be a division between the people when the king accepts either faith as his own. 

The man responsible for turning England to Protestantism was King Henry. 

Henry VIII's first wife was a Spanish princess, Catherine of Aragon. She was the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, as in the ones who financed Columbus' voyage. Catherine was <u>incredibly</u> devout in her catholic faith. By all accounts their, their marriage of nearly 25 years was filled with respect and love... mostly.

### The Catholic King 

In the early 1520, Henry met a young lady in waiting to the queen named, Anne Boleyn. After 7 years of his relationship with Anne Boleyn, he decides to annul his marriage with his first wife Catherine and marry Anne. 

### The English Reformation Begins

1. After years of having a relationship with Anne, Henry decided he wanted his 24-year-marriage to Catherine of Aragon annulled (declared invalid). 
2. Other than his feelings for Anne, this decision was also driven Henry's disappointment at not having a son. After almost 25 years of marriage and nearly a dozen pregnancies, Henry and Catherine only had one living child, the princess Mary.
3. He wants to marry Anne now, and thus doesn't really care what the pope says. This leads to him declaring an act of supremacy. 
:sunglasses: 
### King Henry Breaks with Rome and Founds the Church of England

1. Henry refused to accept the pope's decision and had Parliament declare him the head of a new organization, <span class="green">**the Church of England**</span> through the <span class="green">**Act of Supremacy**</span>.
2. Henry sized the Catholic Church's land in England - this made him richer -- and he married Anne Boleyn in 1533. 
3. Eventually, this new faith was called Anglicanism. 
4. Anglicanism is not that different from the Catholic Church in its beliefs and rituals, but the monarch - and not the pope - is the head of the church. Prayers are conducted in English not Latin. 
5. Clergy can marry and conduct services in English.

### Consequences of Henry's Changes
King Henry ends up having 6 wives, two of whom he beheads, and 3 children. Following Henry's death in 1547, religious turmoil comes. 
- Protestantism under King Edward, then Catholicism under Queen Mary. 

However, Henry's second daughter, Queen Elizabeth I, forms the Anglican Church and institutes the Oath of Supremacy. 
- The <span class="green">**Anglican Church**</span> is acceptable to moderate Catholics and Protestants. 
